## Senior Design I 	
## Jason Russell
## Individual Capstone Assessment

For my senior design project, I will be building a web application to keep track of citations ordered by a local municipality. I chose this as my project because it directly correlates to my current job as a technical consultant, and it will evaluate all the skills I have learned up to this point. As a technical consultant, I work with several local municipalities to monitor and improve their workflow anyway possible. This project gives me the opportunity to further prove to my employer that I am a worthy investment, while also expanding on the relationship that I have with our clients. Ideally, this project will provide value to our current clients and any potential clients. I see this as an opportunity to become an even better programmer.

As mentioned above, this project is an opportunity to further develop the skills that I have learned through the computer science curriculum at UC. The CS curriculum has built the foundation that allows me to pursue projects like this. Classes such as CS 1021, CS 2021, and CS 2028 introduced object-oriented programming and basic coding practices. These classes were also my introduction on how to approach software projects. Along with many other technical skills, the UC curriculum has made me a better researcher and problem solver. Without the CS curriculum I would not even know where to start when considering a project like this.

My co-op as a Programmer at the University of Cincinnati Office of Research is another experience that I can use to help me complete this project. During my time at the Office of Research, I was introduced to web development. Specifically, I was introduced to a JavaScript framework Vue.js. I had to do my own research and even a few courses learning Vue.js. After working with Vue, I developed an appreciation for web development. This co-op was the first time I had to manage my time to complete a large project. Fast forward a few years later to my current job as a Technical Consultant at System Support Associates LLC, and the appreciation for web development would be an asset. At my current job I work with other technologies to maintain/develop web applications. These technologies include ASP.NET and C#. As a technical consultant I now must juggle programming with our client’s other information technology needs, and that has made my time management even better. Working with these other technologies has also improved my understanding of web development. I also must communicate with our clients about their needs and that has made me a better programmer.

If you looked at my course history, you would see that I had previously struggled with this course. The difference between then and now is that I am not more confident in my abilities. It took a few years in the work force to really understand that I could use the technical skills that I learned through school and Co-op. Because of this I am confident and excited to try my hand at another project, and this time I get to do something that I know will be used and have value. I will use this as an opportunity to develop my current skills and learn several new skills. I believe this project will make me a much more skilled programmer. 

To start my project, I will have to take a step back, find a problem, and come up with the best way to fix that problem. I will find the problem by asking the user questions and examining the current workflow. I will ask the user what they wish was different about their current workflow, or things that they wish they could do but currently cannot. At the conclusion of the project, I hope to have a web application that solves the user’s problems and provides them with an efficient workflow for these problems. By the end, if the client seems satisfied with the project, and they feel like it could be of use to them, then I will know that the project was successful. If all of that is true, then I will also know that I did a good job and created a quality product. 
